“Hearing people should realise that deaf are not dump they are deaf.”
Oasis Montessori Academy, located in the community of Bridgetown, Cape Town. The school cater its fair education for both deaf and the hearing learners.
The school with just about 40 learners looked back an inaugural foundation of the school in 2022, 29th July with only 2 learners. The principal of the school, Sonia Zeeberg shared some of the success stories about the school in accepting different learners both deaf, hearing  including those who are living with autism. She also revealed the school’s accessibility and  its supportive environment on their academic programmes.
“every activity here that we do, we also then give the activity in sign language so for our deaf learners they also understand whatever the activity is or whatever the instructions because it is not just given in verbal language but also in sign language,” explained Sonia.
While the Montessori academy follows the National Curriculum and Assessment Policy Statement (CAPS) the teachers have to present the activities to learners however the academy promotes one on one teaching policy as to accommodate every learner’s needs while exercising their freedom to choose their preferable activities.
She embraced her school’s  nature of advancement in achieving the goal to provide solid and unique methods to teach their learners. Principal Zeeberg described the advanced instructing methods as to work with  concrete material so the learners can have broad opportunities to explore while engaging with the provided learning equipments.
In 2023 the school flexed and developed its activities and trainings, these activities involved the participation of parents and guardians. These extended activities included “autism trainings”  in collaboration with Autism Western Cape to conduct  workshops as to raise awareness about autism and behavioural management.  She said that the opportunity help the stuff and volunteers to learn more from the experts.
The school fees and the lack of funding support from the government remain one of the main challenges facing the academy. She expressed the  need  and hardship in connecting with other organisations. She expressed her desire to have more deaf learners included in every activities and the need to extend classes.
Montessori academy promotes diverse workplace with their employees and provide warm welcome to those who would like to volunteer, explore or learn sign language. “ Montessori education is advanced education philosophy if you have a little one at home and  had not  been at day-care or could not  get in school, we have space we have classes,” she extended her warm welcome and invitation to all those who seek learning opportunities for their children.
Al waagah Chairman, Dr Cassiem Dewet emphasised the need for government to invest on building inclusive schools more especially for deaf learners. The  Al Waagah institute provide access to equal education to overcome the stigmatisation and isolation of deaf people.
“we should have about 30 000 learners who are deaf in Western Cape and there are not more than eight schools in the province”
He revealed the struggle of deaf people in  getting a school  suitable for them, “ some of them don’t get school at all, some of our members have gone through that but they are adults now,” he reassured.
Dr Cassiem believes that people living with deaf are the most marginalised group of people living with disabilities. He expressed his disappointments on the stigmatisation posed to deaf  people “hearing people should realise that deaf people are not dump they are deaf,” he advised people to engage with deaf people and learn sign language to promote inclusivity and acceptance not only for deaf people but for all those living with other disabilities.
For those who are looking to visit or enrol their children:
6 petunia road bridgetown 
Email: info@alwaagah.co.za
Contact: 021 638 3368
