Geraldine Roberts, 1972 the Cape Town woman born during the time where most of South Africans mostly people of colour were overwhelmed with the struggles of the apartheid.
Growing up in Wellington, even though she cannot remember most of the events that took place during apartheid, but she likely witnessed some very hard time with her family.
Geraldine who spent some of her childhood  in a farm said her father worked very hard to provide for his family  of more than 5, before they could move away.
Geraldine shared the horrific touching story of loosing her brother at a very young age, she described her childhood  as interesting one “ I had a very interesting childhood” 
Though she could not remember vividly some of apartheid realisation, she said, she can remember in Town seeing bathrooms separated and written “whites only” and the rest.
“my mother was very out spoken”  and having to work on a beautiful  farm but her and her family lived in a very small space, however their situation was not motivated by racism as she confirmed her mother’s employer was different and tolerant.
She revealed that her two brothers, who had to leave and became part of military and joined South African Army.
She said her brothers were strong and they were highly determined. Geraldine  said her and her mother  used to write them letters even though she did not understand which part of Africa they were, and the way their letters would reach  them became a mystery. She believes that prayers is what kept them up every day and hoping for their return.
Upon their return, with big bags, with very dirty clothes, covered with mud.. she  said the feeling of their return was positively overwhelming. 
She told a story of how as a young girl her curiosity led her to her shocking  experience, when the young Geraldine discovered ammunition in his brother’s bag.
Transitioning on the democratic  state of South Africa in 1994, Geraldine embraced Nelson Mandela’s release that led to the global euphoria, and sign of celebratory victory, she said everyone was happy and they embraced Nelson Mandela.
“It was exciting” she added.
She believes  that the goals of the struggle against the apartheid are yet to be achieved. She said there is still much to be improved.
Touching on the current situation of South Africa, specifically Cape Town  she touched on the racial division and lack of diversity. She said this while mentioning the situations that people of colour endure every day, this includes poverty and terrible housing situations.
She said people of South Africa should be involved with each other regardless of their races and no one should have a fear of being discriminated when involved in an interracial relationship.
The 52 years old, Geraldine who is still living in her respective childhood place, Wellington, she is currently involved in the fight against Gender Based Violence (GBV). She shared some of the works they do to help women and men who find themselves in challenging relationships.
“Just succeed in life, whatever dream you have go for it “ she directed the massage to the South African  youth while concluding the interview.
