Mr. Hanief Tiesker stood out as a symbol of optimism and fortitude in the face of injustice and oppression during the dark days of apartheid in South Africa. Hanief grows up in an environment where racial prejudice and segregation were commonplace, and his early years were characterized by the difficulties of surviving under a system that attempted to degrade and divide people based only on the color of their skin.
Growing up in Cape Town in an Indian community, a dynamic but sharply divided town, Hanief was not exposed to apartheid's effects on his friends and family until much later in life. His mother kept on telling them how oppressed they were by the government, but he did not understand it, he witnessed how rules that restricted their chances and denied them fundamental rights like going to the beach since it was reserved for white people bound his uncle, who worked relentlessly to offer freedom.  Despite these challenges, they gave him a strong sense of justice and compassion, taught him to never give up hope in the face of difficulty, and taught him to speak up for what he believed in.
As Hanief entered his teenage years, the realities of apartheid became even more apparent to him. He saw the stark inequalities that existed between the different racial groups in Cape Town, with non-white communities bearing the brunt of government-sanctioned discrimination and violence and people being moved focus fully from their homes to deserted places . His uncle was an activist who was fighting for South Africa to get freedom. Back in the day, his uncle was known as a brave person they called him Gunby because he used to have a gun that was unlicenced for protection, one day the police came to his home and found the gun in the house and his uncle was arrested and went to court, but his uncle won the case because the police never had a search warrant. 
His uncle's involvement in the struggle made them not safe because the would-be stones would be thrown at the windows during the night and all windows would be broken. His uncle had to go to exile and that was the hardest time and his father had to take over the business as they had a shop. The injustices, he witnessed fuelled his desire to make a difference, to challenge the status quo, and to fight for a more just and equal society
Hanief went to the University of Western Cape but he had to lie in order to be accepted at the university because he was an Indian and UWC was for coloured’s , he lied in the application form instant of saying he is Asian,he said Muslim and that how he got admitted to the university because Durban was far for him were Indian university was in.He was taken by Steve Biko philosophy and the Black Consciousness with black is beautiful as many people wanted to be like whites ,as they did not need role models to be other people than to be the people in their communities like Malcolm X  and even Muhammed Ali  to become the heroes .
 Hanief remained steadfast in his beliefs and convictions. He believed in the power of education and knowledge to empower people, to break down barriers and to build bridges between communities. He saw the university campus as a place where ideas could flourish, where minds could be opened, and where people from all walks of life could come together in solidarity and unity. He left the university and became a teacher who taught Accounting but took some time to teach his students and open their minds about the situation of that time. At some point, he decided that he couldn't be a teacher anymore and decided to join the call of Ismail where he realized that the program did not focus on religious things that were happening in other countries.
 He was sent to Pakistan with his wife to study and apply the things he learned there in his daily life in South Africa. During that period, his wife was pregnant and had to go back to South Africa because they did not trust Pakistan’s doctors even when they were good, after that he got an opportunity to become a spokesperson for a South African group since he was from South Africa in Afghanistan and got military training there and had to adapt to different culture and religion. While in training in Afghanistan, Nelson Mandela was released around 1990, and other political prisoners. They had to make means to come back because South Africa had cut ties with them.
When came back they decided to support all the parties since they wanted to overcome the struggle. The PAC was dominant during the struggle, but people did not understand its motivation and that is how ANC came to be dominant. South Africa was free in 1994 from the sorrow and sadness of apartheid. Looking at South Africa today, there is freedom but economically there is no freedom because the majority of people are still struggling and living in poor conditions and the books that are called ‘history books’ are not told or written correctly but they were written by whites and one side of the story like the Khoisan history against apartheid and the arrival of Portuguese in the Cape.
Hanief became a symbol of resistance and hope for his fellow students and the larger society through his unceasing activism. He spoke truth to power, confronted the injustices around him, and was an unwavering and brave defender of social justice. The memory of Mr. Hanief Teskif endures today as a tribute to the strength of bravery, empathy, and tenacity in the face of difficulty. His narrative serves as a reminder that some people can overcome adversity and encourage others to do the same, even under the direst circumstances. Hanief's journey from a little child in Cape Town to a courageous activist at UWC, becoming a teacher and crossing borders to help South African is proof of the human spirit's tenacity and the never-ending pursuit of justice and freedom. 
