Growing up in Heideveld as a teenage girl, Jacky  Poking  described her childhood as the most horrifying one.
Jacky Poking a young girl born in the Cape Flats, Heideveld in 1968. Jacky affiliated the sense of a struggle at a very young age.
Even though  the young Jacky was already exposed to the atrocities of the extremist government of apartheid. 
The apartheid policies sought to divide South African people according to their racial groups. According to Apartheid Museum the first law that was  implemented was the Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act in 1949 and immorality act 1950 this act further forbade people into engaging in interracial marriage nor sexual intercourse. These extreme measures by the apartheid government were further supported by the development of new policies and acts who were introduced along the years. 
In  1950, the population act was introduced, this act classified every South Africans by race. The sting of apartheid policies were mostly inflicted by the non-whites or the people of colour.
Apartheid and its pernicious policies and having been introduced 21 years earlier when Jacky was born, one would describe her as a child born in a struggle.
Growing up in a family of five, her parents with her brother and his wife, Jacky believe that her involvement in the struggle against the apartheid was mostly influenced by her brother. 
“The major political  meeting I attended was the launch of United  Democratic Front (UDF)”, the 55 years old Jacky shared her first political meeting experience.
Jacky as a young student who started  school at very young age, her age earned her an innocent and this way no one could suspect that she was secretly working against the extremist government.
She revealed that at the age of 16, during her matric in 1985, her and few friends were determined to play a big role in activism, this would include the education of youth and recruitment to the struggle.
Jacky also sold a local newspaper that was despised and disapproved by the government of apartheid, Grassroots newspaper. This community newspaper covered local events that were a result of apartheid policies. The purpose of this newspaper was to expose the atrocities of the apartheid by  spreading the massage rather than making profit.
Jacky also revealed that that her parents did not  know about her most involvements to fight against the apartheid and this extended the risk as she would have to sneak out to attend some gatherings. 
Her brother, Bennett Baily who was part of a group  that was called “ The Committee of 81”, he was detained right when the State of emergency  was introduced. This act restricted freedom of movement and assembly, individuals were detained without any trial.
Jack described the horrific night as a nightmare , “ Security used to try and even break doors in  random occasions”, said Jacky. On the night of her brother’s  arrest, she did not know who the police came for as they were both involved in the struggle. “ I was sleeping when I heard these dogs barking and they kept on barking, I was worried because police would shoot at the dogs sometimes”, assured Jacky.
She said that the police called her “ou vrou” and told her she was okay and she can go  to sleep, and this is  where she discovered that they did not have any information about her even though on a later stage she was pimped while she was coming from hiding and she was took to Athlone police station.
When her parents discovered her involvement did not like it but they did nothing to stop her.
Commenting on the state of  South Africa after 1994, Jacky believe that the formation of the first government of national unity was a necessary even though the futuristic possibilities remained unclear. 
She defined the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) as the most touching and  sensitive aftermath of apartheid. “I could not even  watch, it was real sad, but it was something that needed to happen”.
The 55 years old and teenage apartheid  activist believe that the youth of today,  in order to overcome obstacles must not stop rather must continue, she said this while concluding the interview with Treasure Media.