Fidel  revealed that the farm workers under the apartheid system  were rather paid with alcohol.
Fidel Issel, the 46 years old husband  and father to 3 children  having been born during the oppressive time of an apartheid struggle, he  unveiled the extreme treatment that was  posed to people of colour.
Fidel was just 7 years old when major and memorable events took place during the apartheid.
 The apartheid era took away his right of family and almost impacted his relationship with his family. He described the impact as awful and unjust as he never had enough time to spend with his father, who was actively involved in the struggle against the apartheid.
Fidel’s father and the subsequent arrests and banning by the apartheid laws denied him his right to spend more time with his family.
Explaining the impact of the apartheid on his personal life, Fidel said, “you would feel like you were not getting enough love from your family”. Even though his father was partly present, his lesson on the pain was obtaining an independence. “It taught me independence because today I feel much more  independent in terms of being raised in that manner because my mother gave us lot of love beside of my father not getting involved,” claimed Fidel.
Johny Issel, father of Fidel, was arrested and banned in various occasions such as defiant activism, he was not  allowed to come to his family. 
Fidel said his father enrolled in the University of Western Cape and he challenged the policy that censored the right of choice in terms  of clothing. He revealed that the system only allowed students to wear only formal clothes as commonly referred as suits. His eloquence scored him a position and he was elected on the Student  Representative Committee (SRC).
His father met his mother in district 6, Cape Town and they later moved to Mitchell’s plain and this is where Fidel grew up and spen most of his childhood.
Johnny who was one of the Mkhonto-Wesizwe commanders and having been strongly involved in underground conspiracy to substitute  the apartheid, he influenced the launched of United Democratic Front (UDF) that was initially proposed to be launched in Johannesburg and through his articulate influence it was later decided to take place in Rocklands, Mitchell’s plain.
He was also banned for what was believed to be a treason, and according to the apartheid laws raising a forbidden or banned flags was considered a serious offense. 
He said the police would subsequently visit his house and this is where they would find ANC pamphlets and these reasons contributed to his banning. 
Johnny Issel, passed  away in January 2011 leaving many questions about who is going to inherit his legacy and sense of activism. Fidel Issel engaged with most of his father’s comrades during a memorial service, he was asked and potentially convinced to get into his father’s shoes. 
Transitioning on the post apartheid and the new democratic state of South Africa in 1994, Fidel described the atmosphere as exciting, the 16 years old  boy whose childhood was almost drawn up by the atrocities and evil system of apartheid that sought to divide the people of South Africa the only hope he had was to reunite with his parents and live in a peaceful integrated society.
Today, Fidel is actively involved in the upliftment of his  community in  Kensington, this include helping those who are young into finding jobs and assist those who help the community with food.
Mr Issel who is currently involved in the upliftment of the fisherman across Western Cape and who have been serving as ANC fishing desk in the province. Their upliftment include training and development while making sure that the policies are favourable to the small fishermen.
Fidel Issel believe that young people are capable and they should challenge the system that seek to silence them, “ the world is your oyster you can achieve anything you put your mind into, we need to rise above challenges,” proclaimed Fidel while concluding the interview with Treasure Media.