A Young girl growing up during the time when most South Africans were suppressed by the vile system of Apartheid.
“My  father looked  everywhere and they couldn’t not give him a proper direction..”
In District 6, Constitution street lived a young 9 years old girl with her house full of family and children.Mrs Issel Shahida, the woman in her late 60’s described the hardship of growing in a divided community by an apartheid as pure evil and unjustifiable. She  revealed the terror of fearing young  police and having  to pave a way for them or walk as far possibly from them.
She said that at the age of 9 she was able to question the authorities about the things she could not understand and her parents were quite not happy with the idea as this would  put her life on risk of perpetual persecution by the law and government’s  wings.
Mrs Issel responded to the question about the beginning of her activism, she said that she violated her parents rules to attend political meetings in Bonteheuwel with her friends, who she is still friends with today.
She explained the lack of understanding to the words “activists” and she would truly wonder while questioning  interest in the social issues at that age. “I was just a Muslim girl and I didn’t understand the word Activism,” she revealed.
She outlined her second realisation and development in her social awareness, she realised that with all the freedom fighting, and struggle against the apartheid the was something missing and it needed to be addressed as same a the apartheid oppression.
She Revealed that women continued to be treated as maid and their voices were not recognised as  same as their husbands, this happened as women were expected to serve tea and coffee to the men during the struggle gatherings and workshops.
She realised women’s liberation needed to be addressed and she was ready to challenge  these gender stereotypes and norms. She said her first mission commenced through their visitation  to her husband in Elsie’s River,  Johnny Issel who was under house arrest at the time. 
She later joined the “Black women’s Federation”, where she believed the sense of belonging was derived from the similar experiences they had, and the suppression of their voice. 
After she joined the women struggle, she shared her remarkable moment when she learned a new word “Emancipation”. Issel’s father, dishonored her sense of newly found emancipation when she arrived at the house and found his grand son’s washing dishes when she should have been the one doing those duties and chores, however Shahida was highly eloquent and it was never going to be easy to convince her otherwise, she stood by her words and she continued to challenge the gender stereotypes. 
She took her children in an educational experience of a struggle, she would dress them up to the protest while and tell them the reasons for the protest, she thanked  the United Democratic Front (UDF)  for allowing all activities to take place and people to participate  regardless  of their religions and ethnics.
Mrs Issel further revealed that they needed to learn the different struggles happening across the world, and they would educate themselves by the books and they also learned how to address their actions by learning a language of the people.
“Every house hold had a map on, because we needed to know when the boer comes in we needed a get away”
The story of Shahida  Issel took an emotional transition, that reflected on the treatment as the consequences of the struggle and atrocious punishment by the government escalated.
They started an “Eviction committee” this was a strategy to contest the eviction of people who could not pay their rents due to the retrenchment from their respective jobs .
She claimed that on the  sense of taking the protest on another level, they decided to take the protest to Cape Town. 
9 buses from Mitchell’s plain packed with people arrived in Cape Town, they went to the rent offices and they needed to speak to the rent lady, she said that it did not take too long for the policemen to arrive and they filled the entire rent office.
One policeman grabbed a fire extinguisher and he hit her, she was kicked down the stairs and where she fell.
On a similar event that impacted her life, she believe that an anonymous person threw a hand grenade to a neighbouring house in West street, Mitchell’s plain. 
While still in excruciating  pains and process of healing from falling on the stairs and being hit with a fire extinguisher, young Issel who was in her 20s in the  next morning she welcomed uninvited guests, who took her to the police station.
She was informed by the unusual police whom she believes they flew from Durban, they told her she was arrested in the case related to the bombing of the certain house.
On that Monday,  Mrs Issel described the terror after she was told and informed of her detainment under section 29.
According to SAHA “in 1982, the apartheid government passed the Internal Security Act which gave the state even wider powers of control and coercion. Section 29 of this Act allowed for people to be detained indefinitely. This was a clear violation of the rule of law, which called for the protection of people’s personal freedom by allowing people who have been arrested access to lawyers and to a fair trial.
The security police interrogated people detained under Section 29. They used extreme methods of torture to try to gain information. One severe form of torture was to place people in solitary confinement. This meant that the detainee was kept alone in a cell, with no access to other people. They were not allowed to have visitors nor were they allowed to have books to read or radios and newspapers.”
Shahida Issel had to leave her children alone while she was being submitted to the Pollsmoor prison.
Whilst responding to the Treasure Media journalist about the experience that changed her life, Issel emotionally answered the question with her eyes filled with tears. Se was later fetched from Pollsmoor by six officers who convinced her that they were going to sort some stuff in  Caledon square.
She revealed some of the treatment she was put through, she described this as a  situation  that led her to suicidal behaviour, she was put on a soundproof room and she tempted to jump on a building. Police were convinced that she was the one who threw the bomb. She was physically assaulted by police in various occasions. 
She was sent back to Pollsmoor prison, and she was fetched again and detained where she was taken to Caredon Square and this is where she was asked to sign papers to admit that she threw the bomb.
She was often taken to different police stations every week and she could no longer walk properly. 
The security was tightened against her as it reached a level where she was escorted to go to the bathroom and police would watch her striping to get ready for the shower.
She explained  that the vulnerability she was put through diminished her parent’s teachings and she felt like they were no longer useful at that point of life and this is where she thought of giving up her life.
On the 24th December 1985 Shahida Issel was released from Milnerton Police Station and she was told that she could go home.
Due to the traumatic  experiences of her life during  the detainment and imprisonment, Mrs Issel described the strange experience upon her release when she could not remember where her home was located. 
Her setting her feet on the road for the first time after a time in prison, she was frightened by the sound of the cars and she could not walk next to the road.
She shared the shame and harassment her children had to live and  endure while their mother was in prison and the day she saw her dog “snowy” being fed grass by police before they could kill it.
Transacting to the current state of South Africa, she believes her  impact and her struggles against the apartheid were worth it, she believes  it was a right thing as a Muslim girl to participate on the struggle. 
She emphasised her disappointments on the current state and socio-economic issues characterising South Africa and these include lack of job opportunities and development. She remain unconvinced about the freedom South Africa, claiming that it is uncertain and the country is still divided and while the is still a huge gap between rich and the poor.
However she believes the future  of South Africa rely on the following generation. “Life has become so expensive, I do feel  that people they are going rise” proclaimed Mrs Issel while concluding the interview. 