The 14 years old boy,  born and grew in the dominant Coloured neighborhood of Bonteheuwel.
Desmond Richard  Abrahams, born in 19th August 1970 at Jakkalsvlei Avenue reflect on the unbearable situation that led on his involvement to the struggle against the apartheid in South Africa, Cape Town. Desmond explained the affiliation and the huge role played by students organisations to the perpetual resistance and to challenge the unendurable systematic oppression.
However, Desmond revealed that like most parents who were not vibrant and would not talk about the status quo of the apartheid, his parents did not approve his involvement to the resistance.
“I think the family didn’t support, my mom would normal support it but my father would not, and at that time the police were taking lot of  people in prison and because I was at school they would assume it wwould affect my school work”
Just like any average parents  who are concerned of their children’s wellbeing, and for academic reasons, Desmond revealed that his family were not in full support of his involvement, even though they later understood the need to challenge the system.
When he was 16 years Desmond and his two friends Morgan and Andrew, they were subjected into a detention in Victor Verster Prison for handing out pamphlets, Under a 3.1 system this would mean they were being detained for 2 weeks .
From there, they were taken to a magistrates court, they were charged with subversion under the terrorism act of that time.
5 days After their  release, he was  arrested again for attacking  police vehicle and he was held indefinitely, in the mid of 1986/87 and  he  revealed his fellow inmates, Zoli Malinda, Trevor Manuel and others “ and Trevor Manuel became my political teacher at prison” he  explained. He said that his fellow inmates introduced them to political theory as a part of struggle. He was taken to Bellville station where he spent a night and he was later released.
Desmond explained that after 45 minutes later he was arrested again in Victor Verster Prison , under a new state of emergency. He explained the now humorous twist of his fate, when he and other prisoners were waiting for their lawyers to visit them and he asked about his lawyer and he was told his lawyer was also detained.
He was linked to BMW (Bonteheuwel Military Wing) with 436  cases filed in contention of his release. He revealed some of the extreme treatment they had to endure as a result of their resistance and presumptuous behaviour in the prison, he reveal that, they were constantly fed “Mateya” . He explained that the wardens would sometimes feed them rice water, and in a certain day they refused that and they told them they were on a hunger strike.
Due to their unlikely and notorious influence in the prison they were isolated and served in different food section but they would still refuse some of the food.
“We would take all of that and who ever was walking if we saw the wardens we would throw them with the food,” he revealed some of  their naughtiness manners in prison. His father decided to Join Union worker, NUMSA.
Upon his release, Desmond became the part of Bonteheuwel Interschool Congress, according to SAHA In 1984, the Bonteheuwel Inter-Schools Congress (BISCO) was formed to co-ordinate the activities of the various student representative councils (SRCs) which were rallying around issues of inequalities in apartheid schooling and the repression of legitimate political protest. BISCO became the target of security force repression and, in October 1985, along with 101 other organisations, was prohibited from organising or holding any gatherings. A number of BISCO leaders, including Ashley Kriel and Gary Holtzman, were detained and subsequently went into hiding.
He also explained how he got to work for the police and became “impimpi”(an informer) a South African apartheid slang that was used to describe those who were working with police.
“ the police would ask you if you want to work for them, if you say no they would give you another year, so I said yes,” he defended himself.
Transitioning on the state of South  Africa, post Apartheid, Desmond believe that their struggles would be seen a mission accomplished with the promising future that lasted for 16 years, until 2010, 
Many people would describe this year as one of the most remarkable while memorable, as South Africa hosted FIFA World Cup and it became the first African country ever to host World Cup. A year  full of  vibrant nature of vivaciousness and celebratory behaviour characterised by many aesthetic atmosphere full of diversity and happy country in every racial aspect.
However, Desmond described this year as year where the South African long promised dream and goals of the struggles against apartheid faded.
